---
title:  "Taps Aff - Rebuilt in Django"
categories: python
------

## Impetus

It's funny how a silly idea can end up taking over your life.

Back in 2012 I was out walking the dog on an unseasonably warm day down the River Kelvin in Glasgow trying to think up a simple JavaScript project I could write to learn about Ajax transactions; a website which would pull data from an external source, do something with the data, and produce a result for the user.

Pretty generic idea right? That kind of describes every single website-as-a-service out there, however programming is an incredibly creative persuit so as dry as my remit sounded the execution could be as weird as I wanted.

## Nationally endorsed sun-stroke

There's an unagreeable temperature upon which Glaswegian's will deem it appropriate to start undressing in response to a lick of heat coming from the sky. Although no-one can settle upon when it's appropriate (some say never) what we can agree upon is the taxonomy of the conditions: it's Taps Aff weather.

Not that removing one's shirt under favorable atmospheric conditions is unique to the west-coast of Scotland, but the fervour with which locals descend upon every sun-licked park, patio and beer garden is a source of civic pride. This [could perhaps have something to do](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/maps-and-graphics/mapped-the-sunniest-and-dullest-cities-in-europe/) with Glasgow receiving the fewest hours of sun per year than any other European city clocking in at an average total of 1202 hours. Even Reykjavik in Iceland pulls in more with 1268 hours per year and it's a _bawhair_ off being in the arctic circle.

This phrase, Taps Aff, has therefore come to embody far more than paradoxical undressing. It represents shucking your responsibilties in favour of topping up your vitamin-D, meeting with friends under the sun, making the most of what little good weather we get.